So we're gonna use something called
a hook, which is a concept that got
released with React 16.8, so
in React years, it's very new.
But it's actually been around for a decent
amount of time now, to the point that
basically all of React just runs on hooks,
but React was not always written this way.
So I want you to import {
useState } from 'react'.
Okay, useState is a hook,
the way that you can see a hook is
that they always start with use.
So if you see useEffect, useLayoutEffect,
useImperativeHandle, that's one of them.
If you see something that starts with use,
you can know this is a hook,
that's the naming schema for that.
Instead of saying const Location here,
what I want you to do is we're gonna
say const, we'll just comment that out.
We're gonna do some destructuring here,
{location,
setLocation} = useState[''],
with our default state.
Now you can put Seattle, WA here, I'm
just gonna leave it as an empty string.
So that there's no default location
that the user can type in whatever they
want there.
Okay, and now,
this still isn't gonna do anything, right,
because we haven't used
the setLocation yet, but
now we have the ability
to mutate location.
So let's go ahead and do that now.
So we're gonna make
an onChange handler here.
And it's gonna take in an event,
which I typically just say (e) here.
And then I'm just gonna call
setLocation(e.target.value).
So I wrote that line right there.
So anytime a change event happens on this
particular input, it's gonna take that,
it's gonna call this function
here which we're creating.
It's gonna take that event,
it's gonna pull out the target.value.
The target is going to be input, and
that's gonna pull up the value
of what the input is.
And then it's going to call setLocation,
which is going to update the state here.
Once the state is updated, then React
is like, they called setLocation,
which I know now means
that location has changed,
I'm gonna rerender that
with the new state.
So just to prove my point and
put location here, but
I'm also going to put
location right there.
Okay, so now over here,
if I go over here and refresh,
Notice that this is being outputted here.
Pretty cool, right?
This is a one way data binding, right?
So I can have data from
here bound to here.
But it doesn't go the other way.
Cool, so you can get rid
of this location part here.
Let's talk about useState
just a little bit more.
UseState depends heavily on
the order that it's called.
So if I have five hooks in a row, it's
gonna say that the first hook is location,
the second hook is animal,
the third hook is breed, right?
And it's gonna call it, so
you have to call them in
the same order every single time.
So generally not a problem, except,
do not have conditional hooks.
So I cannot say if
(something) { const [hook,
setHook] = useState();.
This, massive no-no, right?
Because now I have a variable
amount of hooks being called.
And so if I have another hook after this,
const [animal,
setAnimal], = useState.
Now, depending if something is true or
not, this will be something else.
And this will get whatever was in here,
wasn't intended for something else.
So if you see your hooks are not
being set to the correct thing and
wildly something you don't expect,
it might be something like this.
Generally just, rules of thumb,
don't put them in if statements,
don't put them in loops.
If you don't do that,
you're never gonna have a problem.
I never have a problem with it,
we're actually about to set up an ESLint
rule to make sure that you don't do this.
>> On the website in code example you have
updateLocation instead of setLocation?
>> I do, that's just variable naming.
>> And then, Someone put
a console.log in a block
of the function block.
And then as you were typing, rerendering,
and it wasn't running
the console.log all the time.
So they're curious what
was going on there.
>> Sure, so if you do something
like console.log(location),
So it depends on the state of your
computer, the state of the background,
how React is running, but
sometimes it will batch those, right?
So if you get multiple things working all
together at once, sometimes React is like,
cool, I can get this.
And it'll put multiple locations or
sets down into one readout.
You can see here it's running
mine every single time.
But you can't depend on how frequently
React is going to render, so
don't depend on how frequently
React is going to rerender.
Don't depend on how it's gonna batch,
don't depend on what order
things are gonna run in.
This is all very important, that's why
I'm telling you, don't have side effects,
keep your render functions very clean and
very fast.
Because if you do that, you get a bunch
of performance stuff absolutely for
free, right?
Other frameworks are now adopting hooks,
you can use hooks in Vue now,
so that's kinda caught on.
Someone was asking me about
updateLocation versus setLocation.
I actually started calling everything set,
just so
I can see at a glance as, okay,
that's a hook set function for me.
I don't think that's even a common React
thing, I think that's just a Brian thing.
But it helps me to know
that that's what that is.
But it doesn't matter.
The only thing that's matter is
if you create a custom hook,
which we build later in the course,
you do need to call it.
Use something,
that's really what's important.
Do not put hooks inside of
if statements or loops,
that's hard rule, literally never,
it's never appropriate.
Whatever you provide to useState here,
this is going to be
the default value of it.
So this is where hooks get a little
strange in terms of their performance
profile.
On one hand, JavaScript and modern
JavaScript engines are very fast, right,
they do a lot of stuff really quickly.
So an example of something that we're
doing that's relatively inefficient, but
it's kind of okay.
Every time this rerender
function gets called,
it actually is creating a new function
here, right, not crazy ideal.
If we were super sensitive
performance here,
we would do something like
const eventHandler = blah.
Actually we can't even do that,
cuz here you have to have location.
And it's holding on to the correct
setLocation via closure, right?
So actually, this wouldn't work.
But, even though the fact that we are kind
of churning through a decent amount of
memory here, especially if this will
be rerendered fairly frequently, fine.
I would wait for that to become a problem
if we did any sort of memoization or
anything like that.
There are things that you can do to
prevent this from rendering more
frequently than it needs to.
But for now, we're just gonna ignore and
just say, I'm typing a ton here and
I'm not feeling any performance problems,
it's fine, don't worry about it.
So onChange is a specific name here,
it's basically you can make any sort
of event handler here that you need to.
So you can see here that actually
React will autocomplete for onBlur,
OnClick, onClickCapture,
onCompositionStart, onCopy, onCut, right?
You do all that here,
and they're just normal,
they're actually React synthetic events.
So React actually imitates what
the normal event object looks like.
And then intercepts a lot of that so that
React can handle before the browser does,
because React can do it
faster than the browser.
But suffice to say that they
imitate the normal API, so
you can just look at the MDN event page,
and that's fine.
So let's talk about this for a second,
this is called a controlled form.
And this is actually a bad idea,
the way that we're doing it.
So what you could actually
do instead is you could
just make this have no change handler and
no value,
and refresh, now this works again, right?
We're not using our location here.
But here, onSubmit,
we could just capture the entire event,
pull everything out of the form and
submit it, right?
And use it just like a normal HTML form.
That's called an uncontrolled form,
or an uncontrolled input,
this input is now uncontrolled,
cuz React isn't doing anything to it.
If you have no validation,
or trickery that
you need to pull with your forms,
just do that.
I'm showing you this so
I can show you how hooks work.
And sometimes this is necessary,
right, if you're doing like,
they have a valid password, or
they're giving you a valid zip code,
then this would be very important to you
and you'd have to do a controlled input.
But not everything needs it,
most things don't need it.
Most time you're just taking someone's
name or something like that,
that's a controlled form.
So let's go add one more ESLint rule.